docs/deploy-helm.md, before:

<!--
  SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2025 NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
  SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
-->
# Deploy NVIDIA RAG Blueprint on Kubernetes with Helm

Use the following documentation to deploy the [NVIDIA RAG Blueprint](readme.md) on a Kubernetes cluster by using Helm.

- To deploy the Helm chart with MIG support, refer to [RAG Deployment with MIG Support](./mig-deployment.md).
- To deploy with Helm from the repository, refer to [Deploy Helm from the repository](deploy-helm-from-repo.md).
- For other deployment options, refer to [Deployment Options](readme.md#deployment-options-for-rag-blueprint).

The following are the core services that you install:

- RAG server
- Ingestor server
- NV-Ingest


## Prerequisites

1. [Get an API Key](api-key.md).

2. Verify that you meet the [hardware requirements](support-matrix.md).

3. Verify that you have the NGC CLI available on your client computer. You can download the CLI from <https://ngc.nvidia.com/setup/installers/cli>.

4. Verify that you have Kubernetes v1.33 installed and running on Ubuntu 22.04. For more information, see [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/) and [NVIDIA Cloud Native Stack repository](https://github.com/NVIDIA/cloud-native-stack/).

5. Verify that you have a default storage class available in the cluster for PVC provisioning. One option is the local path provisioner by Rancher.   Refer to the [installation](https://github.com/rancher/local-path-provisioner?tab=readme-ov-file#installation) section of the README in the GitHub repository.

    ```console
    kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rancher/local-path-provisioner/v0.0.26/deploy/local-path-storage.yaml
    kubectl get pods -n local-path-storage
    kubectl get storageclass
    ```

6. If the local path storage class is not set as default, you can make it default by running the following code.

    ```
    kubectl patch storageclass local-path -p '{"metadata": {"annotations":{"storageclass.kubernetes.io/is-default-class":"true"}}}'
    ```

7. Verify that you have installed the NVIDIA GPU Operator by using the instructions [here](https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/cloud-native/gpu-operator/latest/getting-started.html).

8. (Optional) You can enable time slicing for sharing GPUs between pods. For details, refer to [Time-Slicing GPUs in Kubernetes](https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/cloud-native/gpu-operator/latest/gpu-sharing.html).



## Deploy the RAG Helm chart

To deploy End-to-End RAG Server and Ingestor Server, use the following procedure.

1. Create a namespace for the deployment by running the following code.

    ```sh
    kubectl create namespace rag
    ```

2. Install the Helm chart by running the following command.

    ```sh
    helm upgrade --install rag -n rag https://helm.ngc.nvidia.com/nvidia/blueprint/charts/nvidia-blueprint-rag-v2.3.0.tgz \
    --username '$oauthtoken' \
    --password "${NGC_API_KEY}" \
    --set imagePullSecret.password=$NGC_API_KEY \
    --set ngcApiSecret.password=$NGC_API_KEY
    ```

    > [!NOTE]
    > Refer to [NIM Model Profile Configuration](model-profiles.md) to set NIM LLM profile according to the GPU type and count.
    > Set the profile explicitly to avoid any errors with NIM LLM pod deployment.


## Verify a Deployment

To verify a deployment, use the following procedure.

1. List the pods by running the following code.

    ```sh
    kubectl get pods -n rag
    ```

    You should see output similar to the following.

    ```sh
    NAME                                                        READY   STATUS    RESTARTS      AGE
    ingestor-server-7bcff75fbb-s655f                            1/1     Running   0             23m
    nv-ingest-paddle-0                                          1/1     Running   0             23m
    rag-etcd-0                                                  1/1     Running   0             23m
    rag-frontend-5d6c6dc4bd-5xpcw                               1/1     Running   0             23m
    rag-milvus-standalone-5f5699dfb6-dzlhr                      1/1     Running   3 (23m ago)   23m
    rag-minio-f88fb7fd4-29fxk                                   1/1     Running   0             23m
    rag-nemoretriever-graphic-elements-v1-b6d465575-rl66q       1/1     Running   0             23m
    rag-nemoretriever-page-elements-v2-596679ff54-z2kkf         1/1     Running   0             23m
    rag-nemoretriever-table-structure-v1-748df88f86-z7mwb       1/1     Running   0             23m
    rag-nim-llm-0                                               1/1     Running   0             23m
    rag-nv-ingest-75cdb75c48-kbr7r                              1/1     Running   0             23m
    rag-nvidia-nim-llama-32-nv-embedqa-1b-v2-5b6dc664d8-8flpd   1/1     Running   0             23m
    rag-opentelemetry-collector-558b89885-c7c8j                 1/1     Running   0             23m
    rag-redis-master-0                                          1/1     Running   0             23m
    rag-redis-replicas-0                                        1/1     Running   0             23m
    rag-server-7758bbf9bd-rw2wh                                 1/1     Running   0             23m
    rag-text-reranking-nim-74c5f499cd-clcdg                     1/1     Running   0             23m
    rag-zipkin-5dc8d6d977-nqvvc                                 1/1     Running   0             23m
    ```

    > [!Note]
    > It takes approximately 5 minutes for all pods to come up. You can check Kuberenetes events by running the following code.
    >
    > ```sh
    > kubectl get events -n rag
    > ```

2.  List services by running the following code.

    ```sh
    kubectl get svc -n rag
    ```

    You should see output similar to the following.

    ```sh
    NAME                                TYPE            EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)                                                   AGE
    ingestor-server                     ClusterIP      <none>        8082/TCP                                                  26m
    kubernetes                          ClusterIP      <none>        443/TCP                                                   4d20h
    nemoretriever-embedding-ms                   ClusterIP      <none>        8000/TCP                                                  26m
    nemoretriever-ranking-ms                     ClusterIP      <none>        8000/TCP                                                  26m
    nemoretriever-graphic-elements-v1   ClusterIP      <none>        8000/TCP,8001/TCP                                         26m
    nemoretriever-page-elements-v2      ClusterIP      <none>        8000/TCP,8001/TCP                                         26m
    nemoretriever-table-structure-v1    ClusterIP      <none>        8000/TCP,8001/TCP                                         26m
    nim-llm                             ClusterIP      <none>        8000/TCP                                                  26m
    nim-llm-sts                         ClusterIP      <none>        8000/TCP                                                  26m
    nv-ingest-paddle                    ClusterIP      <none>        8000/TCP,8001/TCP                                         26m
    nv-ingest-paddle-sts                ClusterIP      <none>        8000/TCP,8001/TCP                                         26m
    rag-etcd                            ClusterIP      <none>        2379/TCP,2380/TCP                                         26m
    rag-etcd-headless                   ClusterIP      <none>        2379/TCP,2380/TCP                                         26m
    rag-frontend                        NodePort       <none>        3000:31645/TCP                                            26m
    rag-milvus                          ClusterIP      <none>        19530/TCP,9091/TCP                                        26m
    rag-minio                           ClusterIP      <none>        9000/TCP                                                  26m
    rag-nv-ingest                       ClusterIP      <none>        7670/TCP                                                  26m
    rag-opentelemetry-collector         ClusterIP      <none>        6831/UDP,14250/TCP,14268/TCP,4317/TCP,4318/TCP,9411/TCP   26m
    rag-redis-headless                  ClusterIP      <none>        6379/TCP                                                  26m
    rag-redis-master                    ClusterIP      <none>        6379/TCP                                                  26m
    rag-redis-replicas                  ClusterIP      <none>        6379/TCP                                                  26m
    rag-server                          ClusterIP      <none>        8081/TCP                                                  26m
    rag-zipkin                          ClusterIP      <none>        9411/TCP                                                  26m
    ```


## Port-Forwarding to Access Web User Interface

- [RAG UI](user-interface.md) – Run the following code to port-forward the RAG UI service to your local machine. Then access the RAG UI at `http://localhost:3000`.

  ```sh
  kubectl port-forward -n rag service/rag-frontend 3000:3000 --address 0.0.0.0
  ```

## Experiment with the Web User Interface

1. Open a web browser and access the RAG UI. You can start experimenting by uploading docs and asking questions. For details, see [User Interface for NVIDIA RAG Blueprint](user-interface.md).


## Change a Deployment

To Change an existing deployment, after you modify the `values.yaml` file, run the following code.

```sh
helm upgrade --install rag -n rag https://helm.ngc.nvidia.com/nvidia/blueprint/charts/nvidia-blueprint-rag-v2.3.0.tgz \
--username '$oauthtoken' \
--password "${NGC_API_KEY}" \
--set imagePullSecret.password=$NGC_API_KEY \
--set ngcApiSecret.password=$NGC_API_KEY \
-f nvidia-blueprint-rag/values.yaml
```


## Uninstall a Deployment

To uninstall a deployment, run the following code.

```sh
helm uninstall rag -n rag
```


## (Optional) Enable Persistence

1. Update the ***values.yaml*** file for the persistence that you want. Use the following instructions.

    - **NIM LLM** – To enable persistence for NIM LLM, refer to [NIM LLM](https://docs.nvidia.com/nim/large-language-models/latest/deploy-helm.html#storage). Update the required fields in the `nim-llm` section of the ***values.yaml*** file.

    - **Nemo Retriever** – To enable persistence for Nemo Retriever embedding, refer to [Nemo Retriever Text Embedding](https://docs.nvidia.com/nim/nemo-retriever/text-embedding/latest/deploying.html#storage). Update the required fields in the `nvidia-nim-llama-32-nv-embedqa-1b-v2` section of the ***values.yaml*** file.

    - **Nemo Retriever reranking** – To enable persistence for Nemo Retriever reranking, refer to [Nemo Retriever Text Reranking](https://docs.nvidia.com/nim/nemo-retriever/text-reranking/latest/deploying.html#storage). Update the required fields in the `text-reranking-nim` section of the ***values.yaml*** file.

2. Run the code in [Change a Deployment](#change-a-deployment).



## Troubleshooting Helm Issues

For troubleshooting issues with Helm deployment, refer to [Troubleshooting](troubleshooting.md).

> [!NOTE]
> If the `rag-nim-llm-0` is in a `CrashLoopBackOff` after deployment, then set the model profile explicitly to avoid any errors with NIM LLM pod deployment.
> To set NIM LLM profile according to the GPU type and count, refer to [NIM Model Profile Configuration](model-profiles.md).



## Related Topics

- [NVIDIA RAG Blueprint Documentation](readme.md)
- [Best Practices for Common Settings](accuracy_perf.md).
- [RAG Pipeline Debugging Guide](debugging.md)
- [Troubleshoot](troubleshooting.md)
- [Notebooks](notebooks.md)

Commit message:

Add note for moving to bitnamilegacy for redis

docs/deploy-helm.md, after:

<!--
  SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2025 NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
  SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
-->
# Deploy NVIDIA RAG Blueprint on Kubernetes with Helm

Use the following documentation to deploy the [NVIDIA RAG Blueprint](readme.md) on a Kubernetes cluster by using Helm.

- To deploy the Helm chart with MIG support, refer to [RAG Deployment with MIG Support](./mig-deployment.md).
- To deploy with Helm from the repository, refer to [Deploy Helm from the repository](deploy-helm-from-repo.md).
- For other deployment options, refer to [Deployment Options](readme.md#deployment-options-for-rag-blueprint).

The following are the core services that you install:

- RAG server
- Ingestor server
- NV-Ingest


## Prerequisites

1. [Get an API Key](api-key.md).

2. Verify that you meet the [hardware requirements](support-matrix.md).

3. Verify that you have the NGC CLI available on your client computer. You can download the CLI from <https://ngc.nvidia.com/setup/installers/cli>.

4. Verify that you have Kubernetes v1.33 installed and running on Ubuntu 22.04. For more information, see [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/) and [NVIDIA Cloud Native Stack repository](https://github.com/NVIDIA/cloud-native-stack/).

5. Verify that you have a default storage class available in the cluster for PVC provisioning. One option is the local path provisioner by Rancher.   Refer to the [installation](https://github.com/rancher/local-path-provisioner?tab=readme-ov-file#installation) section of the README in the GitHub repository.

    ```console
    kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rancher/local-path-provisioner/v0.0.26/deploy/local-path-storage.yaml
    kubectl get pods -n local-path-storage
    kubectl get storageclass
    ```

6. If the local path storage class is not set as default, you can make it default by running the following code.

    ```
    kubectl patch storageclass local-path -p '{"metadata": {"annotations":{"storageclass.kubernetes.io/is-default-class":"true"}}}'
    ```

7. Verify that you have installed the NVIDIA GPU Operator by using the instructions [here](https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/cloud-native/gpu-operator/latest/getting-started.html).

8. (Optional) You can enable time slicing for sharing GPUs between pods. For details, refer to [Time-Slicing GPUs in Kubernetes](https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/cloud-native/gpu-operator/latest/gpu-sharing.html).



## Deploy the RAG Helm chart

To deploy End-to-End RAG Server and Ingestor Server, use the following procedure.

1. Create a namespace for the deployment by running the following code.

    ```sh
    kubectl create namespace rag
    ```

2. Install the Helm chart by running the following command.

    ```sh
    helm upgrade --install rag -n rag https://helm.ngc.nvidia.com/nvidia/blueprint/charts/nvidia-blueprint-rag-v2.3.0.tgz \
    --username '$oauthtoken' \
    --password "${NGC_API_KEY}" \
    --set imagePullSecret.password=$NGC_API_KEY \
    --set ngcApiSecret.password=$NGC_API_KEY
    ```

    > [!NOTE]
    > Refer to [NIM Model Profile Configuration](model-profiles.md) to set NIM LLM profile according to the GPU type and count.
    > Set the profile explicitly to avoid any errors with NIM LLM pod deployment.



    > [!NOTE]
    > The Bitnami project has moved certain Redis container artifacts, which might affect availability of some image tags. To use a supported and working version of Redis, you can override the Redis image with the following additional flags in your `helm upgrade` command:
    >
    > ```bash
    > --set nv-ingest.redis.image.repository=bitnamilegacy/redis \
    > --set nv-ingest.redis.image.tag=8.2.1-debian-12-r0 \
    > ```
    >
    > This uses the Bitnami Legacy Redis 8.2.1-debian-12-r0 image. Adjust the tag as needed for your environment.

## Verify a Deployment

To verify a deployment, use the following procedure.

1. List the pods by running the following code.

    ```sh
    kubectl get pods -n rag
    ```

    You should see output similar to the following.

    ```sh
    NAME                                                        READY   STATUS    RESTARTS      AGE
    ingestor-server-7bcff75fbb-s655f                            1/1     Running   0             23m
    nv-ingest-paddle-0                                          1/1     Running   0             23m
    rag-etcd-0                                                  1/1     Running   0             23m
    rag-frontend-5d6c6dc4bd-5xpcw                               1/1     Running   0             23m
    rag-milvus-standalone-5f5699dfb6-dzlhr                      1/1     Running   3 (23m ago)   23m
    rag-minio-f88fb7fd4-29fxk                                   1/1     Running   0             23m
    rag-nemoretriever-graphic-elements-v1-b6d465575-rl66q       1/1     Running   0             23m
    rag-nemoretriever-page-elements-v2-596679ff54-z2kkf         1/1     Running   0             23m
    rag-nemoretriever-table-structure-v1-748df88f86-z7mwb       1/1     Running   0             23m
    rag-nim-llm-0                                               1/1     Running   0             23m
    rag-nv-ingest-75cdb75c48-kbr7r                              1/1     Running   0             23m
    rag-nvidia-nim-llama-32-nv-embedqa-1b-v2-5b6dc664d8-8flpd   1/1     Running   0             23m
    rag-opentelemetry-collector-558b89885-c7c8j                 1/1     Running   0             23m
    rag-redis-master-0                                          1/1     Running   0             23m
    rag-redis-replicas-0                                        1/1     Running   0             23m
    rag-server-7758bbf9bd-rw2wh                                 1/1     Running   0             23m
    rag-text-reranking-nim-74c5f499cd-clcdg                     1/1     Running   0             23m
    rag-zipkin-5dc8d6d977-nqvvc                                 1/1     Running   0             23m
    ```

    > [!Note]
    > It takes approximately 5 minutes for all pods to come up. You can check Kuberenetes events by running the following code.
    >
    > ```sh
    > kubectl get events -n rag
    > ```

2.  List services by running the following code.

    ```sh
    kubectl get svc -n rag
    ```

    You should see output similar to the following.

    ```sh
    NAME                                TYPE            EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)                                                   AGE
    ingestor-server                     ClusterIP      <none>        8082/TCP                                                  26m
    kubernetes                          ClusterIP      <none>        443/TCP                                                   4d20h
    nemoretriever-embedding-ms                   ClusterIP      <none>        8000/TCP                                                  26m
    nemoretriever-ranking-ms                     ClusterIP      <none>        8000/TCP                                                  26m
    nemoretriever-graphic-elements-v1   ClusterIP      <none>        8000/TCP,8001/TCP                                         26m
    nemoretriever-page-elements-v2      ClusterIP      <none>        8000/TCP,8001/TCP                                         26m
    nemoretriever-table-structure-v1    ClusterIP      <none>        8000/TCP,8001/TCP                                         26m
    nim-llm                             ClusterIP      <none>        8000/TCP                                                  26m
    nim-llm-sts                         ClusterIP      <none>        8000/TCP                                                  26m
    nv-ingest-paddle                    ClusterIP      <none>        8000/TCP,8001/TCP                                         26m
    nv-ingest-paddle-sts                ClusterIP      <none>        8000/TCP,8001/TCP                                         26m
    rag-etcd                            ClusterIP      <none>        2379/TCP,2380/TCP                                         26m
    rag-etcd-headless                   ClusterIP      <none>        2379/TCP,2380/TCP                                         26m
    rag-frontend                        NodePort       <none>        3000:31645/TCP                                            26m
    rag-milvus                          ClusterIP      <none>        19530/TCP,9091/TCP                                        26m
    rag-minio                           ClusterIP      <none>        9000/TCP                                                  26m
    rag-nv-ingest                       ClusterIP      <none>        7670/TCP                                                  26m
    rag-opentelemetry-collector         ClusterIP      <none>        6831/UDP,14250/TCP,14268/TCP,4317/TCP,4318/TCP,9411/TCP   26m
    rag-redis-headless                  ClusterIP      <none>        6379/TCP                                                  26m
    rag-redis-master                    ClusterIP      <none>        6379/TCP                                                  26m
    rag-redis-replicas                  ClusterIP      <none>        6379/TCP                                                  26m
    rag-server                          ClusterIP      <none>        8081/TCP                                                  26m
    rag-zipkin                          ClusterIP      <none>        9411/TCP                                                  26m
    ```


## Port-Forwarding to Access Web User Interface

- [RAG UI](user-interface.md) – Run the following code to port-forward the RAG UI service to your local machine. Then access the RAG UI at `http://localhost:3000`.

  ```sh
  kubectl port-forward -n rag service/rag-frontend 3000:3000 --address 0.0.0.0
  ```

## Experiment with the Web User Interface

1. Open a web browser and access the RAG UI. You can start experimenting by uploading docs and asking questions. For details, see [User Interface for NVIDIA RAG Blueprint](user-interface.md).


## Change a Deployment

To Change an existing deployment, after you modify the `values.yaml` file, run the following code.

```sh
helm upgrade --install rag -n rag https://helm.ngc.nvidia.com/nvidia/blueprint/charts/nvidia-blueprint-rag-v2.3.0.tgz \
--username '$oauthtoken' \
--password "${NGC_API_KEY}" \
--set imagePullSecret.password=$NGC_API_KEY \
--set ngcApiSecret.password=$NGC_API_KEY \
-f nvidia-blueprint-rag/values.yaml
```


## Uninstall a Deployment

To uninstall a deployment, run the following code.

```sh
helm uninstall rag -n rag
```


## (Optional) Enable Persistence

1. Update the ***values.yaml*** file for the persistence that you want. Use the following instructions.

    - **NIM LLM** – To enable persistence for NIM LLM, refer to [NIM LLM](https://docs.nvidia.com/nim/large-language-models/latest/deploy-helm.html#storage). Update the required fields in the `nim-llm` section of the ***values.yaml*** file.

    - **Nemo Retriever** – To enable persistence for Nemo Retriever embedding, refer to [Nemo Retriever Text Embedding](https://docs.nvidia.com/nim/nemo-retriever/text-embedding/latest/deploying.html#storage). Update the required fields in the `nvidia-nim-llama-32-nv-embedqa-1b-v2` section of the ***values.yaml*** file.

    - **Nemo Retriever reranking** – To enable persistence for Nemo Retriever reranking, refer to [Nemo Retriever Text Reranking](https://docs.nvidia.com/nim/nemo-retriever/text-reranking/latest/deploying.html#storage). Update the required fields in the `text-reranking-nim` section of the ***values.yaml*** file.

2. Run the code in [Change a Deployment](#change-a-deployment).



## Troubleshooting Helm Issues

For troubleshooting issues with Helm deployment, refer to [Troubleshooting](troubleshooting.md).

> [!NOTE]
> If the `rag-nim-llm-0` is in a `CrashLoopBackOff` after deployment, then set the model profile explicitly to avoid any errors with NIM LLM pod deployment.
> To set NIM LLM profile according to the GPU type and count, refer to [NIM Model Profile Configuration](model-profiles.md).



## Related Topics

- [NVIDIA RAG Blueprint Documentation](readme.md)
- [Best Practices for Common Settings](accuracy_perf.md).
- [RAG Pipeline Debugging Guide](debugging.md)
- [Troubleshoot](troubleshooting.md)
- [Notebooks](notebooks.md)
