docs/image_captioning.md, before:

<!--
  SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2025 NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
  SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
-->

# Enable image captioning support
Enabling image captioning will yield higher accuracy for querstions relevant to images in the ingested documents at the cost of higher ingestion latency.
Once you have followed [steps in quick start guide](./quickstart.md#deploy-with-docker-compose) to launch the blueprint, to enable image captioning support, developers have two options:
- [Enable image captioning support](#enable-image-captioning-support)
  - [Using on-prem VLM model (Recommended)](#using-on-prem-vlm-model-recommended)
  - [Using cloud hosted VLM model](#using-cloud-hosted-vlm-model)
  - [Using Helm chart deployment (On-prem only)](#using-helm-chart-deployment-on-prem-only)

## Using on-prem VLM model (Recommended)
1. Deploy the VLM model on-prem. You need a H100 or A100 or B200 GPU to deploy this model.
   ```bash
   export VLM_MS_GPU_ID=<AVAILABLE_GPU_ID>
   USERID=$(id -u) docker compose -f deploy/compose/nims.yaml --profile vlm up -d
   ```

2. Make sure the vlm container is up and running
   ```bash
   docker ps --filter "name=nemo-vlm-microservice" --format "table {{.ID}}\t{{.Names}}\t{{.Status}}"
   ```

   *Example Output*

   ```output
   NAMES                                   STATUS
   nemo-vlm-microservice                   Up 5 minutes (healthy)
   ```

3. Enable image captioning
   Export the below environment variable and relaunch the ingestor-server container.
   ```bash
   export APP_NVINGEST_EXTRACTIMAGES="True"
   export APP_NVINGEST_CAPTIONENDPOINTURL="http://vlm-ms:8000/v1/chat/completions"
   docker compose -f deploy/compose/docker-compose-ingestor-server.yaml up -d
   ```

## Using cloud hosted VLM model
1. Set caption endpoint and model to API catalog
   ```bash
   export APP_NVINGEST_CAPTIONENDPOINTURL="https://integrate.api.nvidia.com/v1/chat/completions"
   export APP_NVINGEST_CAPTIONMODELNAME="nvidia/llama-3.1-nemotron-nano-vl-8b-v1"
   ```

2. Enable image captioning
   Export the below environment variable and relaunch the ingestor-server container.
   ```bash
   export APP_NVINGEST_EXTRACTIMAGES="True"
   docker compose -f deploy/compose/docker-compose-ingestor-server.yaml up -d
   ```

[!TIP]: You can change the model name and model endpoint in case of an externally hosted VLM model by setting these two environment variables and restarting the ingestion services
```bash
export APP_NVINGEST_CAPTIONMODELNAME="<vlm_nim_http_endpoint_url>"
export APP_NVINGEST_CAPTIONMODELNAME="<model_name>"
```

## Using Helm chart deployment (On-prem only)

To enable image captioning in Helm-based deployments by using an on-prem VLM model, use the following procedure.


1. In the `values.yaml` file, in the `ingestor-server.envVars` section, set the following environment variables.

   ```yaml
   APP_NVINGEST_EXTRACTIMAGES: "True"
   APP_NVINGEST_CAPTIONENDPOINTURL: "http://nim-vlm:8000/v1/chat/completions"
   APP_NVINGEST_CAPTIONMODELNAME: "nvidia/llama-3.1-nemotron-nano-vl-8b-v1"
   ```

2. Enable the VLM image captioning model in your `values.yaml` file.

   ```yaml
   nim-vlm:
      enabled: true
   ```

3. Apply the updated Helm chart by running the following code.

   ```bash
   helm upgrade --install rag -n rag https://helm.ngc.nvidia.com/nvidia/blueprint/charts/nvidia-blueprint-rag-v2.2.0.tgz \
   --username '$oauthtoken' \
   --password "${NGC_API_KEY}" \
   --set imagePullSecret.password=$NGC_API_KEY \
   --set ngcApiSecret.password=$NGC_API_KEY \
   -f rag-server/values.yaml
   ```

> [!Note]
> Enabling the on-prem VLM model increases the total GPU requirement to 9xH100 GPUs.

> [!Warning]
> With [image captioning enabled](image_captioning.md), uploaded files will fail to get ingested, if they do not contain any graphs, charts, tables or plots. This is currently a known limitation and will be fixed in a future release.

Commit message:

Upstream changes for v2.3.0 RAG release (#54)
This release adds RTX6000 platform support, adds deployment by using NIM operator, improves vector database pluggability with the blueprint, and other changes.
Detailed changes in this release are available in CHANGELOG.md file.

Signed-off-by: Shubhadeep Das <shubhadeepd@nvidia.com>

docs/image_captioning.md, after:

<!--
  SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2025 NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
  SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
-->
# Enable Image Captioning Support for NVIDIA RAG Blueprint

You can enable image captioning support for [NVIDIA RAG Blueprint](readme.md). Enabling image captioning will yield higher accuracy for querstions relevant to images in the ingested documents at the cost of higher ingestion latency.

After you have [deployed the blueprint](readme.md#deploy), to enable image captioning support, you have the following options:
- [Enable image captioning support](#enable-image-captioning-support)
  - [Using on-prem VLM model (Recommended)](#using-on-prem-vlm-model-recommended)
  - [Using cloud hosted VLM model](#using-cloud-hosted-vlm-model)
  - [Using Helm chart deployment (On-prem only)](#using-helm-chart-deployment-on-prem-only)

> [!WARNING]
>
> B200 GPUs are not supported for image captioning support for ingested documents.
> For this feature, use H100 or A100 GPUs instead.


## Using on-prem VLM model (Recommended)
1. Deploy the VLM model on-prem. You need a H100 or A100 or B200 GPU to deploy this model.
   ```bash
   export VLM_MS_GPU_ID=<AVAILABLE_GPU_ID>
   USERID=$(id -u) docker compose -f deploy/compose/nims.yaml --profile vlm up -d
   ```

2. Make sure the vlm container is up and running
   ```bash
   docker ps --filter "name=nemo-vlm-microservice" --format "table {{.ID}}\t{{.Names}}\t{{.Status}}"
   ```

   *Example Output*

   ```output
   NAMES                                   STATUS
   nemo-vlm-microservice                   Up 5 minutes (healthy)
   ```

3. Enable image captioning
   Export the below environment variable and relaunch the ingestor-server container.
   ```bash
   export APP_NVINGEST_EXTRACTIMAGES="True"
   export APP_NVINGEST_CAPTIONENDPOINTURL="http://vlm-ms:8000/v1/chat/completions"
   docker compose -f deploy/compose/docker-compose-ingestor-server.yaml up -d
   ```

## Using cloud hosted VLM model
1. Set caption endpoint and model to API catalog
   ```bash
   export APP_NVINGEST_CAPTIONENDPOINTURL="https://integrate.api.nvidia.com/v1/chat/completions"
   export APP_NVINGEST_CAPTIONMODELNAME="nvidia/llama-3.1-nemotron-nano-vl-8b-v1"
   ```

2. Enable image captioning
   Export the below environment variable and relaunch the ingestor-server container.
   ```bash
   export APP_NVINGEST_EXTRACTIMAGES="True"
   docker compose -f deploy/compose/docker-compose-ingestor-server.yaml up -d
   ```

[!TIP]: You can change the model name and model endpoint in case of an externally hosted VLM model by setting these two environment variables and restarting the ingestion services
```bash
export APP_NVINGEST_CAPTIONMODELNAME="<vlm_nim_http_endpoint_url>"
export APP_NVINGEST_CAPTIONMODELNAME="<model_name>"
```

## Using Helm chart deployment (On-prem only)

To enable image captioning in Helm-based deployments by using an on-prem VLM model, use the following procedure.


1. In the `values.yaml` file, in the `ingestor-server.envVars` section, set the following environment variables.

   ```yaml
   APP_NVINGEST_EXTRACTIMAGES: "True"
   APP_NVINGEST_CAPTIONENDPOINTURL: "http://nim-vlm:8000/v1/chat/completions"
   APP_NVINGEST_CAPTIONMODELNAME: "nvidia/llama-3.1-nemotron-nano-vl-8b-v1"
   ```

2. Enable the VLM image captioning model in your `values.yaml` file.

   ```yaml
   nim-vlm:
      enabled: true
   ```

3. Apply the updated Helm chart by running the following code.

   ```bash
   helm upgrade --install rag -n rag https://helm.ngc.nvidia.com/nvidia/blueprint/charts/nvidia-blueprint-rag-v2.3.0.tgz \
   --username '$oauthtoken' \
   --password "${NGC_API_KEY}" \
   --set imagePullSecret.password=$NGC_API_KEY \
   --set ngcApiSecret.password=$NGC_API_KEY \
   -f deploy/helm/nvidia-blueprint-rag/values.yaml
   ```

> [!Note]
> Enabling the on-prem VLM model increases the total GPU requirement to 9xH100 GPUs.

> [!Warning]
> With [image captioning enabled](image_captioning.md), uploaded files will fail to get ingested, if they do not contain any graphs, charts, tables or plots. This is currently a known limitation.
