docs/nv-ingest-standalone.md, before:

<!--
  SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2025 NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
  SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
-->

# Deploying NV-Ingest Standalone

This guide explains how to deploy and use NV-Ingest as a standalone service without deploying the full ingestor server. This is useful when you want to ingest documents directly using Python scripts.

For more details and advanced usage, refer to:
- [NVIDIA/nv-ingest repository](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nv-ingest)
- [Official NV-Ingest Quickstart Guide](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nv-ingest/blob/main/docs/docs/extraction/quickstart-guide.md)

## Limitations

When using NV-Ingest in standalone mode, please be aware of the following limitations:

1. **Citations Disabled**: The RAG server's citation feature will be disabled for documents ingested through standalone NV-Ingest. This is because the citation metadata requires additional processing that is handled by the full ingestor server.

2. **No Web UI**: The standalone deployment does not include the web-based upload interface. All document ingestion must be done through Python scripts.

3. **Manual Collection Management**: Collection management (creation, deletion, etc.) must be handled manually through the Python client, as the management interface is part of the full ingestor server.

## Prerequisites

1. Ensure you have Docker and Docker Compose installed
2. Have Python 3.12 or later installed
   > ℹ️ If you're using **Python 3.13**, make sure you've `python3.13-dev` installed.
3. Have an NGC API key (see [Obtain an API Key](../quickstart.md#obtain-an-api-key))
4. Install a package manager (either uv or pip):
```bash
# Option 1: Install uv (recommended for faster installation)
pip install uv

# Option 2: Use pip (comes with Python)
# No additional installation needed
```

## Deployment Steps using Docker

1. Follow the steps in [Deploy With Docker Compose](quickstart.md#deploy-with-docker-compose) section, but skip the `ingestor-server` deployment.

The key difference while deploying from `docker-compose-ingestor-server.yaml` file deploy only `nv-ingest-ms-runtime` and `redis` using following command:
```bash
docker compose -f deploy/compose/docker-compose-ingestor-server.yaml up -d nv-ingest-ms-runtime redis
```

2. Create a Python virtual environment and install required packages:

Using uv (recommended):
```bash
# Create and activate virtual environment
uv venv nv-ingest-env
source nv-ingest-env/bin/activate  # On Linux/Mac
# OR
.\nv-ingest-env\Scripts\activate  # On Windows

# Install required packages
uv pip install nv-ingest-api==25.6.2 nv-ingest-client==25.6.3 tritonclient==2.57.0 pymilvus==2.5.8 pymilvus[model] pymilvus[bulk-writer]
```

Using pip:
```bash
# Create and activate virtual environment
python -m venv nv-ingest-env
source nv-ingest-env/bin/activate  # On Linux/Mac
# OR
.\nv-ingest-env\Scripts\activate  # On Windows

# Install required packages
pip install nv-ingest-api==25.6.2 nv-ingest-client==25.6.3 tritonclient==2.57.0 pymilvus==2.5.8 pymilvus[model] pymilvus[bulk-writer]
```

3. Create a Python script to ingest documents. Here's a placeholder script that you can customize:

```python
# ingest_documents.py
from nv_ingest_client.client import Ingestor, NvIngestClient

FILEPATHS = [
    "data/multimodal/multimodal_test.pdf",
    "data/multimodal/woods_frost.pdf"
]

COLLECTION_NAME = "multimodal_data_nvingest"

MILVUS_URI = "http://localhost:19530"
MINIO_ENDPOINT = "localhost:9010"

# Server Mode (Create NV-Ingest client)
client = NvIngestClient(
    message_client_hostname="localhost",
    message_client_port=7670
)

ingestor = Ingestor(client=client)

ingestor = ingestor.files(FILEPATHS)

ingestor = ingestor.extract(
                extract_text=True,
                extract_tables=True,
                extract_charts=True,
                extract_images=False,
                text_depth="page",
                paddle_output_format="markdown"
            )
ingestor = ingestor.split(
                tokenizer="intfloat/e5-large-unsupervised",
                chunk_size=51,
                chunk_overlap=15,
                params={"split_source_types": ["PDF" ,"text", "html"]},
            )

ingestor = ingestor.embed()

ingestor = ingestor.vdb_upload(
                collection_name=COLLECTION_NAME,
                milvus_uri=MILVUS_URI,
                minio_endpoint=MINIO_ENDPOINT,
                sparse=False,
                enable_images=True,
                recreate=False,
                dense_dim=2048,
                stream=False
            )

results, failures = ingestor.ingest(show_progress=True, return_failures=True)
```

4. Run your ingestion script:
```bash
python ingest_documents.py
```
Post ingestion, you can use the same rag-server to perform inference on the collection name that was used during ingestion.

Commit message:

Upstream changes for v2.3.0 RAG release (#54)
This release adds RTX6000 platform support, adds deployment by using NIM operator, improves vector database pluggability with the blueprint, and other changes.
Detailed changes in this release are available in CHANGELOG.md file.

Signed-off-by: Shubhadeep Das <shubhadeepd@nvidia.com>

docs/nv-ingest-standalone.md, after:

<!--
  SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2025 NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
  SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
-->

# Deploy NV-Ingest Standalone for NVIDIA RAG Blueprint

This guide explains how to deploy and use NV-Ingest as a standalone service for [NVIDIA RAG Blueprint](readme.md) without deploying the full ingestor server. This is useful when you want to ingest documents directly using Python scripts.

For more details and advanced usage, refer to:
- [NVIDIA/nv-ingest repository](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nv-ingest)
- [Official NV-Ingest Quickstart Guide](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nv-ingest/blob/main/docs/docs/extraction/quickstart-guide.md)

## Limitations

When using NV-Ingest in standalone mode, consider the following limitations:

1. **Citations Disabled**: The RAG server's citation feature will be disabled for documents ingested through standalone NV-Ingest. This is because the citation metadata requires additional processing that is handled by the full ingestor server.

2. **No Web UI**: The standalone deployment does not include the web-based upload interface. All document ingestion must be done through Python scripts.

3. **Manual Collection Management**: Collection management (creation, deletion, etc.) must be handled manually through the Python client, as the management interface is part of the full ingestor server.

## Prerequisites

1. Ensure you have Docker and Docker Compose installed. For details, refer to [Get Started](deploy-docker-self-hosted.md).
2. Have Python 3.12 or later installed
   > ℹ️ If you're using **Python 3.13**, make sure you've `python3.13-dev` installed.
3. [Get an API Key](api-key.md).
4. Install a package manager (either uv or pip):
```bash
# Option 1: Install uv (recommended for faster installation)
pip install uv

# Option 2: Use pip (comes with Python)
# No additional installation needed
```

## Deployment Steps using Docker

1. Follow the steps in the deployment guide for [Self-Hosted Models](deploy-docker-self-hosted.md) or [NVIDIA-Hosted Models](deploy-docker-nvidia-hosted.md), but skip the `ingestor-server` deployment.

The key difference while deploying from `docker-compose-ingestor-server.yaml` file deploy only `nv-ingest-ms-runtime` and `redis` using following command:
```bash
docker compose -f deploy/compose/docker-compose-ingestor-server.yaml up -d nv-ingest-ms-runtime redis
```

2. Create a Python virtual environment and install required packages:

Using uv (recommended):
```bash
# Create and activate virtual environment
uv venv nv-ingest-env
source nv-ingest-env/bin/activate  # On Linux/Mac
# OR
.\nv-ingest-env\Scripts\activate  # On Windows

# Install required packages
uv pip install nv-ingest-api==25.8.0rc6 nv-ingest-client==25.8.0rc6 tritonclient==2.57.0 pymilvus==2.5.8 pymilvus[model] pymilvus[bulk-writer]
```

Using pip:
```bash
# Create and activate virtual environment
python -m venv nv-ingest-env
source nv-ingest-env/bin/activate  # On Linux/Mac
# OR
.\nv-ingest-env\Scripts\activate  # On Windows

# Install required packages
pip install nv-ingest-api==25.8.0rc6 nv-ingest-client==25.8.0rc6 tritonclient==2.57.0 pymilvus==2.5.8 pymilvus[model] pymilvus[bulk-writer]
```

3. Create a Python script to ingest documents. Here's a placeholder script that you can customize:

```python
# ingest_documents.py
from nv_ingest_client.client import Ingestor, NvIngestClient

FILEPATHS = [
    "data/multimodal/multimodal_test.pdf",
    "data/multimodal/woods_frost.pdf"
]

COLLECTION_NAME = "multimodal_data_nvingest"

MILVUS_URI = "http://localhost:19530"
MINIO_ENDPOINT = "localhost:9010"

# Server Mode (Create NV-Ingest client)
client = NvIngestClient(
    message_client_hostname="localhost",
    message_client_port=7670
)

ingestor = Ingestor(client=client)

ingestor = ingestor.files(FILEPATHS)

ingestor = ingestor.extract(
                extract_text=True,
                extract_tables=True,
                extract_charts=True,
                extract_images=False,
                text_depth="page",
                table_output_format="markdown"
            )
ingestor = ingestor.split(
                tokenizer="intfloat/e5-large-unsupervised",
                chunk_size=51,
                chunk_overlap=15,
                params={"split_source_types": ["PDF" ,"text", "html"]},
            )

ingestor = ingestor.embed()

ingestor = ingestor.vdb_upload(
                collection_name=COLLECTION_NAME,
                milvus_uri=MILVUS_URI,
                minio_endpoint=MINIO_ENDPOINT,
                sparse=False,
                enable_images=True,
                recreate=False,
                dense_dim=2048,
                stream=False
            )

results, failures = ingestor.ingest(show_progress=True, return_failures=True)
```

4. Run your ingestion script:
```bash
python ingest_documents.py
```
Post ingestion, you can use the same rag-server to perform inference on the collection name that was used during ingestion.
